Okay,
guys,
And welcome back to another student.
Questions answered.
Video now following on from the last lecture where John asked if it was possible to save an
individual tab,
an individual sheet from a master workbook.
And save that to a specific directory based on who?
The territory manager WAAS.
What we name want to do is copy multiple sheets from the master workbook and save that to
an individual file and then save that to a specific directory.
Well,
that's easy to do now.
Jones idea was toe have the sheets listed by the territory manager in a list and then
create a loop to do just that.
And that is exactly the right approach.
So here I've created a who looks after what tab?
And that's that less that hurt that John suggested.
So write it up.
We have the territory managers want to on three.
These are the sheets that will be associated with each territory manager,
and these are the sheets that we want to copy to a new workbook before we say we to the
specific directory.
OK,
so tm one will have the sheet t m 01 summary.
He will also look after site one site to on site six.
Which is way over here.
Tim 02 will have a tear t m 02 summary.
And he would just,
like go.
He or she was just like after site three.
So in in this instance,
what we want to do is fourth for total Manager to is copied this sheet.
Andi,
site three this sheet into a new workbook.
Now,
just just one thing to note here.
If you record a macro and copy two sheets at once,
the code is interesting.
Let's say so.
We're not going to use that method.
I'm just going to show it to you here just so you can see what I mean.
So I'm just gonna record a new macro.
I won t mo to summary on a site three so T m 02 summary hit control on site three that I'm
gonna hit.
Right.
Right click.
Choose Movil.
Copy.
I know that soft shots.
Sorry about that.
Creates Copy,
Andi.
New workbook Onda.
Okay,
and there we go.
Now I'm gonna stop that recording on.
We're going to go and take a look at that code.
So here we go.
Here is that code we can see.
We have sheets,
open brackets,
array T M 02 summary commerce site,
three ducks select and inside three Duff activate.
And then we do the copy thing.
Now,
the interesting part about that is this a ray thing on where we have toe have these sites
in exactly that format.
So if we had just one site,
we would have a double quotes,
timid in the name of the thing,
double quotes and then close brackets.
But if we have more than one,
each individual site name will have to be enclosed in brackets.
We'll have to have a comma,
but never have a calmer at the end whether we have 123 or however many sheets.
And to be honest with you,
that's a complicated way of programming.
So I would take a different approach.
So this is how I would do it.
We'll break it down into individual chunks of code.
Now I'm gonna put them all in one sub.
It's nice and easy to understand.
So I've copied the code that we created yes,
to the save me because they're a couple of elements of that that I want to reuse on one of
Don's have created a new new surgical saving multiple sheets.
Andi,
I've just put in the declared the valuables on the four bits that we need to do.
Now.
I've added a little test in here to make sure that we are on row one,
which is where our territory manager lives.
And that's basic stuff.
We've looked at this earlier in the course.
Okay,
so the full parts are The first part is creating new book without first sheet.
So we're gonna copy out ther sheet and create our new workbook and save it off.
So far,
so good.
We did that yesterday,
and everything is good now.
The second part is we want to flip back toe a master file on,
then in the loop that John suggested from the list loop through and then capture all the
additional sheets one at a time and paste them into the book that we've just created.
So far,
so good.
Now,
what will happen if we have links on the summary sheet to sheet three,
for example,
is when we do this,
the link in the summary sheet is gonna point to the original document So what we're going
to need to do is sort out that link issue.
And that's a simple as a find and replace on the final parties we're going to save and
close the new sheet in the correct directory and then go back to our original sheet.
So they're the four elements.
Okay,
What we're gonna need to do is a good a couple of macro,
so we can steal some lines of code,
and then we'll build this supple Lego style.
OK,
so let's flip back to excel.
Andi,
let's record a macron on.
What we want to do in the first instance is exactly what we did yesterday.
Macron number five.
So what we're going to say is,
right?
Click that.
Choose Movil.
Copy on or it's off screen created copy.
Come to new workbook.
Click.
OK,
and then we're gonna hit F 12 to save as Onda Rod Jane.
I think it was.
We keep this one in and we'll call this one t m 02 on hit.
Enter on,
then we're gonna close that and we're gonna stop.
Okay,
so there's our first macro.
Now we need to do is re open that sheet so I just wanted to record the just wanted to
record the closing of it.
So,
Rod Jane,
there we go.
T m 02 whips,
Andi less t mot.
Now our sacra macro is going to be to add the other sheet,
which is site three.
So again,
I'm gonna start recording a macro,
and I'm gonna choose site three right click Movil.
Copy.
On this time,
I'm gonna choose Create a copy,
and I am going to point to t m 02 XLs,
which is the fall we just created.
Okay,
so now we have sheet site three.
Andi sheet to summary,
and I'm just gonna hit.
Stop now.
I'm gonna close that off.
Okay?
Don't save.
Now.
Let's have a look at the code that's being generated.
So what we have is this one code macron number five,
which is where we did the summary sheet.
So this is get the first sheet in the first sheet on this one was add the other sheets.
Eso That's just on the other sheets.
Okay.
Fantastic.
Now what we're gonna do is just copy all of that and dump it over here into module one,
so we can have a play around with it,
and I'm just gonna put it up here.
Runs come close,
E So you can see this little bit better.
Okay,
so the first thing we need to do is we're going to be on this sheet that who looks after
what sheet,
and I've tied this macro.
He had this thing subroutine saving multiple sheets to this button.
So when the codes finished,
we can just hit that you can select any of these.
Hit that,
and it's gonna work perfectly.
Okay,
so here we go.
The first thing we want to do is capture this the territory manager.
So begin,
declare a variable.
Appear we're gonna say Dim,
my t m actually,
probably still left off a string.
No,
I'll fully ran this before,
right before I upload the code.
So there's our first thing,
and what we want to say is,
we want to get the active territory,
get the territory manager so we can say my tea and equals active cell don't value.
And so far,
so good That is going to read from this cell here.
Remember,
we've got this little checker to make sure we're on Row one.
s Oh,
there we go.
We've got active.
We've got our territory manager Now.
The next thing we need to do is have a file name to saving us on the dim call it my file
name a string on day,
so never gonna add a file name.
I'm gonna say my file name equals on my foul name is going to say year now because we want
to have a date stamp on and months.
No,
Andi,
is it day or data car?
Remember?
I think it's day now,
Andi,
and we wanna have a space dash space on the name of our territory managers.
So that is going to be the active cell dot value Or alternatively,
we could use the tea.
And because that's going to be the same value.
Okay,
Eso And then we want to say Andi,
Then we want tohave a dot x l s x sago with whips would have not done up on din there.
So that's my file name.
Now.
I I like the way that we did it yesterday with my safe path.
Eso gonna copy that ongoing pace that underneath here.
So there we have my safe path and when I do need to do there is add a backslash.
Alternatively,
we just out of backslash in the safe paths over here.
So let me just declare that one too.
So we have him onto the type I know.
So my save path string.
Okay,
so let's just run through that coast.
So far,
so what we've got.
So we have my t m s t m 01 My file name is gonna be 2016.
10 27 space dash space T m 01 dot x l s,
x.
So far,
so good on my safe path is gonna be pulled from that V Look up from the safe path sheet.
Okay,
so far,
so good.
Now,
the next thing we need to do is capture the name off this workbook where this code actually
resides.
So I'm gonna call this master workbook.
Someone say dim must work as a string,
and that's going to capture the name of this workbook.
So in here in the same master work book equals this work book,
dot dot name on all of these air earlier in the course.
So if you download the my macro,
but you're going to find all of these snippets of code in there.
So now we know the name of our territory manager.
We know the file name.
We're going to save it as we know where we're going to save it.
And we also know the name off this sheet.
Okay,
so the next thing we need to do is do that,
copy the active sheet or copy the first sheet and save it to that of the workbook.
So let's go back up to this code here.
No,
I'm not going to choose the clothes because we're gonna do that way at the end.
So it's gonna copy that for a second on pace that underneath here.
Bom bom bom bom bom.
Okay,
I know it will.
so sheets T m o to select.
We don't need to select them so we can get rid of that.
What we do need to do is copy it,
but we're not going to be copying the sheets.
T m 02 summary.
We're gonna be copying this sheet with name of the at active cell.
Here's a thought.
We actually need to move down a cell first.
Only because we captured this and then we want to come down to here.
So the next thing we want to do is saying active cell dot offset on that offset one comma
zero dot select.
And now we've managed to move down to this cell just here on that is the cell value that's
going to contain the name of the next tab that we want to do.
So what we're gonna do is instead of saying that we're going to say active sell don't value
on that is going to tell us the name of the sheet that we want to copy.
We can ignore this change directory thing cause we don't need that in there.
And what we actually want to do is set on and again,
okay?
And then what?
We want to do this,
save the file.
So here we have our path.
But we've already specified the path,
so we can just replace that with the my safe path.
So all of that Congar Oh,
so what we're going to say here is my safe path on that we've created from here.
So it's going to be my safe path,
Onda.
The next thing we're gonna say is my full name on we're gonna say,
I think that's it's actually excuse We heard the Excel SX already,
So they go.
So let's let's run through that code up to their on.
Make sure that that works.
So let's just pick t m o too and step through the code.
Hopefully,
that's all in shot.
So we're going to say F eight f eight F eight.
So captured Territory manager Timo to file name.
That's where it is safe.
Tough is in Jane.
That's name of our original book.
Moved down the cell.
You can see that's just happened.
Sheets active,
Seldom value Copy now.
Might have to bring this back to the front.
So they released him 02 on.
We're going to save that and hopefully they go.
10 2070 m 02 We have just created a new workbook,
and the first thing I'm gonna do is going delete that because as we keep creating these
things,
it's going to start to try and save over the tub.
OK,
so that's our first part complete.
We've managed to create the new workbook.
Okay,
The second part is to go back to the original workbook aan den.
Select the next files.
OK,
so let's just come back to excel.
There we go.
So that's the first part.
Completing the second part.
Go back to the original workbook.
So what we're gonna say is workbooks open rackets and we already have the name of this
saved his masterwork.
Book masterwork book close brackets dot Activate.
You'll remember that you have to activate these.
So that's going to take us back to this sheet.
Just here.
Now,
once we're here,
what we wanna do is have already captured This is moved down another cell.
So long induced.
Choose that one on pace that in there.
So we've come back to the sheet and we're now going to move down to here,
which will be site three on.
This is where we're gonna add our loop.
So what we're going to say is gonna say,
Do while Theo the active cell don't value doesn't equal blank,
and then I'm gonna close off that do loop there.
So there's our loop.
Now.
What we're gonna do is continue toe loop and capture these cheat names until we've reached
the end of them.
Now what we're gonna do so we can reference the sheet by its index number is add cans and
say X equals X plus one and you'll see why in just a second,
let me just go back.
Thats helping DMX is an insurgent in X as into Jenna.
So now what we're gonna do is we're gonna increase this buy one,
then the next thing we want to do,
it's still that code where we copied a sheet and added it to an existing workbook so we
don't need this select thing.
But what we do need is this thing,
this code just here.
So I'm just gonna copy that Only pace that into a do loop.
So there is that code.
Let me just line it up.
Okay,
so sheets site three.
No,
we don't say sheets site three.
We wanted to say sheets the active cell value.
So we replace that with active cell,
don't you on?
That's going to give us our sheet name.
And there we want a coffee before work books and we're going to choose my file name my file
name because we already know what we've saved it as.
And then we want toe.
Copy this before the first workbook.
So what we're gonna say is before sheets X.
Okay.
Now,
the next thing we need to do is come back to the Sheikh because remember that the new sheet
will no be selected and go through this loop again just to make sure that if there are any
other tubs on there,
so I'm just gonna copy.
Where's that?
That that's what we want to take.
We want to come back here.
So masterwork,
book stocked,
Activate.
And the game.
We're gonna want to move down the cell.
So again,
let's go through that Copy,
Andi Paste.
Okay,
so let's step through that code and make sure that that works.
So let's be on T m o,
too.
And let's step through this code.
Bump,
bump,
bump.
We know the first part of it works on.
We're now down to the second path.
Well,
we got there quickly,
so we selected this sheet again.
The master workbook.
We've moved in,
so we're on site three.
They were going to copy site three on paste it into my file name before sheets X,
which will be one.
And then we're gonna come back here,
so that should have done that.
And then we're gonna come back here and we're gonna loop again.
And now we've reached the end.
This loop should end,
and it does.
OK,
so stop.
Let's go and have a look at that.
Okay,
So here's our new sheet.
And here we have our two tabs.
So we have a summary sheet and we have a site three sheet now,
just realised rather than copy before what we want to do is copy after,
isn't it?
So we can have it at the end.
Okay,
so we're gonna copy after now.
Here's the complication.
Let's have a look.
If we looked at she to summary,
you can see that this is reference in territory,
man.
Just part two dot excellence.
And with square brackets.
So that is going to be the third part where we sought out that link issue.
Here's our new book.
So because this is quite a long lecture,
but recovering quite a lot of ground in here.
What we need to do now is do a search to look for Where is it?
We needed to do search to look for this,
which is square brackets territory manages part two Doc XLs em on square brackets again.
So what we're gonna do is we're going to copy that just so we can see what the sin taxes.
We don't want the potteries.
We just want the square bracket.
So I'm just going to copy that to the clipboard.
Now I'm going to record a new macro.
Doesn't matter what's going to be called.
I'm gonna select all the cells,
hit control and f there.
It is totally mentions Part two,
and I will replace that with absolutely nothing.
Replace all okay.
And clothes.
And I'm just going to select cell a one.
And that's no broken the link with the original file.
Okay,
so let's go and have a look at the macro that that created.
So stop recording.
I'm not gonna flip back to hear view Properties window,
and it will be living there so it would go macro seven them scoops.
Just gonna copy all of that and again dump it over to he eyes.
That's why we're working.
Yeah.
This is why we're working.
Okay,
Macro seven.
So this essentially is the code that we want to use who want to use the cells select on.
Then we want to replace that string.
So what we're gonna do first is we're just gonna copy all of that Weaken.
Butcher it in a minute.
So we're into our third party.
Okay?
Now,
what we do need to do is build that string.
This one here,
square brackets toe tremendous.
Part two on a square brackets again.
So here,
I'm gonna I'm gonna call this my replace my replace on my replaces.
Gonna equal quotes.
Open square brackets.
Andi on.
Remember that this?
We already know the name of this.
It's called Master Workbook Has toe work.
Book Andi quotes square brackets.
So now we have the my replace.
Now all we need to do is replace this here with my replace.
Oops.
Delete that one as well.
My replace.
There we go on.
I'm also going to add that up to here is Well,
Tim,
my replace a string.
Okay,
right.
So that will no do the find and replace for the sheet that we currently have selected.
Now what we do need to do is loop through all the sheets on here to make sure that we
captured them all.
So we need to wrap this in a loop.
So what?
One do before the or before we get to the cell select to say,
for X equals 12 on,
we want to do it for each of the sheet.
So we're going to say sheets dot Kent.
So however many sheets we have that so many times we're going toe loop through this,
I'm just going to say next X okay,
so that should do exactly what we wanted to do.
Okay,
so one of the things that we do need to do here is select this sheet bites index numbers.
So I'm gonna say sheets go from rackets X.
And remember,
that's going to be iterating by one east only passionate this loop dot select.
Okay,
so that's gonna make sure we cycle through all of those that's going to select the cells
that's going to do the find and replace.
Then finally,
let's go back to a one because a ones nice entirely on,
Then we're going toe loop again,
and that's going to break all of the links.
And the final part that we need to do is we need to go back to sheet one,
because that's a very good place to start on the final parties sheet.
Let's say one dot select.
That's going to take us back to the first sheet.
These will be in a different order when we run through them,
and then we're gonna have to do our file save again.
So where's that code?
That's that just there because we want to re save the file.
No,
because we've made changes to this.
What we're gonna do is we're gonna turn off the display alerts,
and that's going to stop it saying,
Hey,
do you want to save the changes that you just made?
So what we're gonna say is application Adult,
uh,
display A lot equals false Andi.
That's why I didn't get the thing is a con type application application.
Display lights equals false copy That's going to stop us getting that.
Hey,
do you really want to save this message?
And at the end here,
we're going to send them back on on.
The final thing we need to do is close the file.
So somewhere up here in the original code,
there we go active window dot close copy and come down to the bottom here and then close.
I'll tidy that up in a second.
Okay,
so that should be all four elements.
So let me just close this.
Do you want to save?
No.
Let me just delete the file.
Jane,
we go delete.
Okay.
Let's have a quick thing through that cone.
Make sure that we've done it.
Right.
So number this checks that were on row one,
That's all good.
We know this part works for creating the new workbook.
Um,
this part part the second that loops,
ruin ads all the other things here before we go to the my replace.
What we want to do is make sure we've selected the new full name again.
So we can say work books on this one is called my file name,
isn't it because it's the new one.
My phone lane Don't active,
Bates.
I can type.
Activate.
It's a little early in the morning for May.
Then we're going to Dio.
We're gonna build a string for the find and replace.
We're going toe loop through all of those using the sheet index number.
So one on the first pass to on the second past select all the cells,
Do the find and replace selection.
One just started up,
Turn off the display alerts and save it.
So let's select that one Onda click over here.
I'm gonna close that and hopefully get this so most of its in view and let's step through.
So we have a total manager Rafael Neymar Safe path.
Everything works all the way through to here on.
We're going to carry on going through this on that is the end of that loop.
We're going to go back to a new workbook.
There's a new workbook we're gonna build Are replaced string,
which is going to be square brackets.
In the name of that workbook on,
we're going to go here Sheets one x select on We are going to select all the cells do ever
find and replace select Sell a three,
Let's say a one just to be pedantic Next X loop through.
So we know going to cite three that sound that she eats like told cells.
Do the final replace.
Select a one.
Go back to sheet number one scale.
It's false saved the workbook turned display alerts on unclos workbook and end sub.
So let's go and have a look and make sure that that worked.
Here's a fall we just created,
and here we have t m 02 summary way at the front on we have site three.
So let's just make sure that that does work.
Let's just change that to 4 50 So there you go.
That's destroyed the link between the two workbooks s.
So let's just run that one more time.
Doing bother saving the changes and this sound,
Let's say T m 01 and just hit the button.
But my mama Mama Mama bump on.
There you go.
So t m one should be Rod.
So let's come up to hear Ron.
And there's our file and they go Timo,
One summary site whose look after you x after site 12 on six.
And hopefully we have no links to the old workbook.
OK,
fantastic.
That works perfectly.
Now one thing to do.
Let me just close that and show you something else that we've covered this in level two.
So if you've done level to my apologies for repeating this,
if you haven't done 11 to,
here's a neat trick.
Now,
with with these summaries,
this particular value referenced site three by name on,
Then sell.
See one.
So site three exclamation point C one And it read this cell just here.
But we didn't have that problem with these because what I did was I built an indirect
reference using the name in cell a three.
So what I said was some open rackets.
Indirect.
And then I built that string as a can Cassin ation.
Using the single quote Onda a three Andi single quotes exclamation point B B on that became
an indirect reference,
which we then summed on.
That means you wouldn't have to break the links because that will go with you when you cop
with sheets over.
Now,
that was quite a long lecture,
but we did cover an awful lot in there.
Hopefully that was of some use.
And it was always if you have any questions,
just ask.
Have a great day.
Thanks very much.